All right, good morning.
My name is John Geleynse.
I'm the Senior Director of
Technology Evangelism
from Apple in Cupertino,
and it is awesome to see
you here this morning.
We had a fabulous day yesterday.
We packed this room,
and you've done it again,
and it's really great.
We saw some awesome apps from your
colleagues on the app side of the house.
You're doing apps, too,
but we're calling you games.
But it was a fun day yesterday,
and we hope that today
is going to be a fun day,
too.
So it's great to be in Berlin.
We've been here before,
and it's always a great experience.
I want to thank you for taking
time out of your busy schedule,
first of all, to come and join us here.
I know many of you probably
didn't get to WWDC,
so this is a great opportunity
for you to be here.
But nonetheless,
it's time out of your day.
It's time out of your work schedule.
And we hope... We hope to pay you
back in spades with information
and tips and tricks and answers to
your questions throughout the day.
So we're excited that you're here.
So we've got a great day
planned for you today.
We are going to be going into a lot
of detail about iOS 7 technologies,
game technology specifically,
things that apply to game developers.
We're going to be talking about the
new hardware that Apple has come
out with over the last few months.
And we'll be running a lab.
In addition to the sessions in this room,
we'll be running a lab next
door throughout the day.
But I'll talk more about that
towards the end of this presentation.
But for starters,
I wanted to give a review of a few
important milestones that we've
had over the last few months.
And because these milestones are
really important for you to see and
think about as a game developer.
First of all,
we recently announced that Apple shipped
its 700 millionth iOS device.
And this is an unbelievable number.
I mean, I've been personally with
Apple for 14 years and been through
the whole OS X release cycle,
all of iTunes and the music
store and iPods and everything.
And then the iPhone came.
And who would have thought at that
time that we would hit this number?
So this is an extremely
amazing milestone.
And it bodes well for you as a game
developer because it's an enormous
audience for you for your games.
And it means there are a lot of
devices that can run your games.
And there's a lot of opportunity
for you to grow your market and to
develop titles for this huge audience.
And as you know,
the growth of games on the
App Store has been phenomenal.
And so thanks for your work.
You know, your work.
And I think that's the bigger part in the
part you played in creating games for the
App Store because it's probably half of
the inventory of apps on the App Store.
And they're selling like crazy.
So now, since it's so easy for people to
update iOS 7 and iOS on their devices,
we also announced that, you know,
more than 200 million of those
700 million devices were upgraded
to iOS 7 in the first three days,
the first weekend that
iOS 7 was released.
And that's an incredible amount of money.
And so I think that's the
biggest thing that we've done.
And I think that's the
And in fact,
that three days was the fastest update,
you know,
iOS update sequence that we've ever
seen in the history of iOS since 2007.
And it shows that, you know,
iOS 7 is really popular.
In fact, it's so popular that
as of a few days ago,
we announced that we're seeing
nearly two-thirds of all
iOS devices running iOS 7.
So this is a huge, huge move forward.
And, you know, clearly,
this means that your efforts
in the coming months should
be focused on supporting iOS
7 and the latest iOS devices.
We're selling a lot of iPhones
and iPads and iPad minis,
and they are all running iOS 7,
and almost three-quarters
of our community has already
transitioned to iOS 7.
And then after you've supported
iOS 7 in the new devices,
if that's the case,
you're going to be able to
get a lot of new devices.
So if time allows and you still have
customers that are running games on
older OS releases and older systems,
then consider adding
legacy support for them.
But all of your energy
now should be on iOS 7.
Now, we've listened to your
feedback over the last year,
and we've done a bunch of things that
we think many of you appreciated.
We've heard back from developers
who've given us this feedback and said,
hey, you finally did that,
and I wanted to go over a couple of
these areas and things that apply to game
developers and developers in general.
Some of the highlights of these efforts.
So the first was app transfer,
letting you move your app
from one team to another.
And so, for example,
if you sell your game or
your studio gets acquired,
this is a really great capability
inside of iTunes Connect.
And we'll show you how this works today
in the noon App Store marketing session.
Another thing that we heard from
developers and that we were able
to implement is over-the-air
download limit changes.
So the limit was raised from
50 megabytes to 100 megabytes,
and this makes it easier for people to
get your games when they're on the go.
Even if they're not on Wi-Fi.
And this is huge for
you as game developers,
right?
Because many of you were doing a
lot of work to keep your binary
sizes down to about 50 megabytes.
And you were trying to
keep under that ceiling.
And so this change means that it's a lot
easier for you to build a universal app,
to include your retina assets,
to include a 64-bit slice,
and all the other things that
you need to put into your binary.
Now, the other thing we did was we heard
a lot of feedback from developers who
couldn't get to the developer conference,
of course.
We always hear feedback
about ticket sales.
And so we worked really hard this
year to give you same-day videos.
And because the demand for
tickets was unprecedented,
there were a lot of developers
who really wanted to know what was
going on and wanted to be there,
so to speak,
and learn what everybody else was
learning that was at the conference.
So we did same-day videos,
and this meant that people,
developers around the world, many of you,
could actually experience the
developer conference from afar
and learn what everybody else
was learning in San Francisco.
And one of the things that
we saw as a result of this,
which was pretty cool,
was that there were many people
who had one person who got into
the show from their company,
and what would happen is the
videos would become available,
and many of you would
watch them back at home.
Okay.
And then people were sending questions
to their colleagues at the show,
asking them to go to the
labs and gather information,
gather answers, and then send it back.
So there was this real-time
feedback loop that we were getting,
and it was tremendous.
So we got a lot of
positive feedback on that,
and we're going to try to continue
this trend for future WWCs.
Another request was
hosted in-app purchases.
And in-app purchase, obviously,
is something that you can
use to monetize your games.
Many of you know this.
If you've got freemium,
you're using the freemium model.
And if you have something that you
sell in your game that involves
downloading additional content,
Apple can provide for the
hosting of that content,
up to 2 gigabytes of content.
We announced this at WDC this past year.
There's no additional cost involved,
and we simply provide this
hosting service to you.
And so it's super easy to use.
This was a big request,
and it's now here for
you to take advantage of.
And for those of you who have paid apps,
we expanded the volume purchase program.
And what this really means for you
is this is a way for you to sell
your apps in large numbers at a
discount to businesses or schools.
And if you've got an
entertainment-type game,
this could be really interesting for
getting it to schools in high volume.
And it gives you, really,
another way of expanding.
your market.
So, and then finally we added
enhanced sales and trends.
So there's some great new
ways to view your sales and
trends data in iTunes Connect.
And this makes it easier for you to know
what's going on with your sales overall
and to see how your app is selling.
And we'll go into more detail about
these reports and how you can extract
even more information from them in
the noontime session as well today.
And then finally,
another big highlight of stuff that
we've done based on your feedback
is we added a kids category.
And if you make games for children,
this category makes it easy for
parents to find age-appropriate
games for their children.
And this really increases the
chances of people finding your
game because you're not in such a
big pond of the entire app store.
You're now just in this category.
So kids category is a big deal.
So we're listening,
and those are a few of the things
that we've done in the past
year based on your feedback.
But we are always interested in
hearing from the developer community.
We see your blogs.
We get your email.
But we want to encourage you
to continue to file bugs,
enhancement requests.
To send us email.
You're going to see email addresses at
the end of many of the presentations
here today from the evangelism team.
And we're also interested in your
feedback throughout the day in the labs,
in the reception afterwards,
or in any time that you've got a
moment to catch an Apple employee.
There are a pile of us here.
There's a lot of us here.
You'll see them at the
end of this presentation.
And we really do want your feedback.
We want to make it great, even better,
to be an iOS developer.
So okay,
that's the stuff that we've done.
In the past,
let's shift our focus to the present.
2013 was a really busy
year for us at Apple.
I mean,
every year seems to be really busy.
But it was also a really
important one for us.
We saw a fundamental evolution in
the iOS operating system on the
platform with the release of iOS 7.
And we introduced a whole
bunch of new devices.
And the thing to realize is that these
changes provide... a completely new
basis for...or a new foundation for
a next generation of games and apps.
And that's really what we
want to talk about today.
So at WWDC, as you know,
we introduced iOS 7.
And it's the next generation of iOS,
obviously.
There have been six previous...six major
releases of iOS previously since 2008
when the SDK first came out with iOS 2.
And every time there's a new release,
we're... you know,
there's always a new SDK with
tons of new technology for you to
take advantage of in your games.
And iOS 7 is the most significant
update to iOS since 2007.
Even though there have been
these six previous releases,
we made a ton of changes with iOS 7.
And now, obviously,
with the numbers I shared earlier,
you've got hundreds of millions
of customers... that are running
iOS 7 on their devices now.
And iOS 7 has so many new technologies
and features for you to take
advantage of as a game developer.
I mean, there's SpriteKit for 2D games.
Developers have been asking for
something like SpriteKit for years,
and now it's here.
There's a new framework for
supporting game controllers.
We announced that at WWDC and
actually had game controllers
for people to play around with
in the labs at the conference.
There are major enhancements
to existing frameworks,
so OpenGL ES3 and Game Center have
dramatically enhanced capabilities,
and we'll cover these in
sessions later on today.
And then there's 64-bit,
which lets you tap into the
performance of the A7 processor.
So iOS 7 is a huge change.
Huge step forward as an OS release.
It introduces a brand
new user experience,
which you've all experienced,
but it also introduces a ton
of technologies for you to take
advantage of as a game developer.
And so, really,
no matter what kind of game you develop,
whether it's an arcade game,
a puzzle game, a racing game, or an RPG,
there is a lot of capabilities in
iOS 7 for you to take advantage of.
And on the hardware side,
we introduced a new
generation of iOS devices.
You know, this is the iPad
Mini with Retina display.
The iPad Air came out,
and they were the most recent
introductions to the hardware line.
And these are incredibly powerful
new devices that are built on the A7
chip with its 64-bit architecture.
And alongside of that,
they've got the M7 motion coprocessor.
So these are very significant devices.
And with that, prior to that,
we announced the iPhone 5c and the 5s.
And the 5s is incredibly powerful.
I mean, undoubtedly, you've been playing
with it for a long time.
And running your games, you know,
builds of your games on it.
And the GPU on that device
is awesome for games.
And the speed is amazing.
And we think that, really,
the iPhone 5s is going to be the
new baseline for a lot of games.
This is an incredible device.
And it's the combination of these
new devices with the A7 processor
and the retina displays and all of
their hardware capabilities combined
with iOS 7 that form a foundation
for the next generation of iOS games.
And helping you get the most
out of all of these technologies
and out of these devices is
really what the focus is today.
So I'd like to spend some time
talking about the characteristics
that I think people will come to
expect in next-generation iOS games.
I mean, there are great games
on the platform today,
but what we want to talk about this
morning is next-generation iOS games.
So first and foremost,
a next-generation game
needs to be a great game.
And I mean by great that, you know,
people aren't going to do it for free.
You can judge your game based on
the technologies that you adopt.
It's not about the technologies.
People don't buy games because
they use Game Center specifically.
They don't buy games because
they're built on OpenGL ES 3 or 2.
and they also, you know, great games.
It's not about what API you
integrate specifically.
It's not about the technology.
Instead, what people want is
they want to have fun.
They want to be entertained.
They want to learn while they're
doing a logic puzzle or they want to,
you know, a casual game or so,
or they want to be entertained
in a group setting by doing
group gameplay over AirPlay.
It's about being entertained.
And so what's important to people who
are buying games is that the games are
inviting and that they're engaging,
that they're intuitive,
and that they're polished.
And so let's talk about a
few of these for a minute.
So the best games on iOS are inviting,
and this means that they leave
a great first impression.
Now,
we saw some fabulous software yesterday,
and I'll tell you,
of all of the cities we've been to
on the Tech Talks -- and I'm not
just saying this because I'm on
stage here in Berlin -- and frankly,
the apps, the quality of the apps we
saw yesterday was profound.
It was very, very, very high.
And I'm assuming that today we're
going to meet a bunch of you who
have some experience with iOS.
Yeah.
And I'm assuming that today we're
going to meet a bunch of you who
have some experience with iOS.
And I'm assuming that today we're
going to meet a bunch of you who
have some experience with iOS.
Yeah.
And I'm assuming that today we're
going to meet a bunch of you
who have some incredible games.
But frankly, not every game on the
App Store is incredible.
There are a lot of games that are okay,
and they could be a lot better.
And one of the things that a lot of
developers struggle with is creating
something that is inviting that
leaves a great first impression.
And the first impression for a game,
for an app, for anything really
begins on the App Store.
It's your icon.
That's your calling.
It's your calling card.
It's the way you describe your game,
the App Store description.
It's the screenshots that you select for
your game that people are going to view.
Now, why is this important?
Well, it's because people are
perusing the App Store.
They're browsing the
App Store all the time,
looking for the next cool game to play.
Right?
And they're going to pick your game out
based on what they see on the App Store.
And so you need to have a great icon.
You need to have appealing screenshots.
And then your first impression,
once they see it,
they're going to be like, "Oh,
that's cool.
That's cool.
I'm going to play this game."
And then once the game is downloaded,
the first impression is reinforced
again and again as players
relaunch the game over and over,
and your game starts up.
And the question you really see,
the question to ask yourself and the
thing to evaluate of your own game is,
every time it launches,
does it launch quickly?
Does it get people back
to where they were before?
Are you saving the state?
Are you building excitement
when the app is launched?
Or do people constantly have to
wait for stuff to happen before
they can get into the gameplay?
No one wants to wait.
Perhaps there's something
that's interfering with launch.
So a great first impression is
really driven by being inviting,
by launching quickly,
and constantly reinforcing
that impression over and over
as people play your game.
Now, great games are also intuitive.
And this means that they should
show the player how to get started.
This means that they should
provide feedback within the game
that reinforces the gameplay.
And games, just like apps,
should be intuitive and easy to use for
the people that they were created for.
I mean, there are so many
different kinds of games,
RPG, casual, first person shooters,
all these different kinds of games.
And different players are drawn
to different kinds of games.
What one person understands
and likes with a logic,
a casual logic puzzle solving game is
completely different from somebody who's
playing a first person shooter like
Call of Duty or something like that.
And so what is obvious in one
case might not be so obvious
to a player in the other case.
And so you really have
to define your market,
understand who you're going for,
and then create a game that's
intuitive and easy to use for them.
And another attribute of great
games is that they're engaging.
This means that they're addictive,
that they're sticky.
Engaging games bring people
back again and again.
You want people to download your
game and leave it on their device.
In fact, what you're doing,
your number one competition
is not so much other games in
your category or in your genre,
but it's more for the
attention of customers,
right?
Just because someone has downloaded
your game doesn't mean they're
going to play it again and again.
And so your number one competition
is for their attention.
And engaging games that leave
a great first impression,
reinforce that over and over and over,
and that are intuitive,
are games that don't get deleted.
Your competition is really whether
or not customers are going to
delete you off their device or not.
And then your competition after
that is whether or not you can
compete with other game developers.
So engaging games are games that
players just can't put down.
And they, you know,
they have to play just one more time,
right?
And I'm not a huge gamer myself,
but there are about 10 games that
I love to play again and again that
I continue to keep on my phone,
and they're the kinds of games
that I can't put down when I'm on a
transcontinental flight or whatever.
And I just, I can't.
I keep wanting to play.
I got to beat my high score.
And that's the kind of addictive,
kind of engaging,
bring people back replayability
that's accomplished actually
by having great gameplay,
frequent updates, fresh new content,
and new game levels, for example.
All of those things,
giving customers those
things again and again,
over and over,
bringing them back in with new levels,
new content, that kind of thing is what
encourages replayability.
And also, great games are social.
And this means they create a real sense
of competition or reward or teamwork.
And this is, you know,
they offer different challenges.
And on iOS, this is largely accomplished
through Game Center.
And we have a session later today that
will cover Game Center enhancements
and Game Center in and of
itself in a lot more detail.
And lastly, games,
great games are polished.
And this is all about
having an attractive design,
which actually ties back to
leaving a great first impression.
And polished games look gorgeous.
And they feel just right on iOS.
They're designed for iOS.
The graphics are retina quality.
And the graphics fit the full
resolution of the screen.
They're not stretched or scaled
to kind of fit and therefore,
you know, they're distorted.
And lastly, great games are polished.
And this is all about
having an attractive design,
which actually ties back to
leaving a great first impression.
And polished games look gorgeous.
And they feel just right on iOS.
They're designed for iOS.
The graphics are retina quality.
And the graphics fit the full
resolution of the screen.
They're not stretched or scaled
to kind of fit and therefore,
you know, they're distorted.
Polished games should feel native,
which means that buttons
should behave like buttons.
There should be feedback.
They don't have to look like
standard UIKit controls,
they can be completely custom UI,
but if it looks like a button,
it should behave like a button,
because people on iOS,
people on these devices expect
all apps to behave certain ways.
And lists within your game
should scroll and be responsive
beneath someone's finger.
They should bounce at the
top and at the bottom,
like standard lists do in other apps.
So this is important for
polished games to feel native.
And polished games also need to
pay attention to the details like
saving progress when they quit,
so that when they're restarted,
you've saved state and customers can
come back to where they left off.
Particularly with multitasking in iOS 7,
where someone might double tap
the home button and leave the game
momentarily to go do something else.
You want to pause and provide a really
great experience and save the state
and hold things where they're at,
and then give a good experience
for players coming back into
the game once they return to it.
And polished games handle
device rotation correctly.
And as I go through all of
these attributes of being great,
really,
there's a lot of things in here that
are check marks that you need to be
checking that you're doing in your game.
All right.
And lastly, great games are,
great iOS games are innovative.
And, you know,
the way to define innovation
is that they are frequently,
you know, the first of their kind.
They're category-defining.
They are groundbreaking.
They create a completely
new genre of gaming,
perhaps.
That's what innovative games do.
And they're like a breath of fresh air.
And innovative games are often
built on technological advances,
frankly.
And we'll look at some
examples here shortly.
And here are a few examples
of some really great iPhone
and iPad games that have won
Apple Design Awards over the years.
I mean, I've been involved with the
Apple Design Awards for pretty
much my entire career at Apple.
And I remember awarding Real Racing,
the first version of it, an ADA.
Doodle Jump, when it first came out,
just took off.
They won an Apple Design Award.
Cut the Rope, Topple.
Osmos came out on iPad.
Fabulous game.
Tremendous flight control.
Completely create a brand
new genre of gameplay when
it hit the App Store in 2008.
And over the years,
it's won a couple of Apple Design Awards.
And then to more recent years.
Apps like Ridiculous Fishing,
Jetpack Joyride,
Where's My Water from Disney.
Fabulous games that are
incredibly engaging.
They keep people coming
back again and again.
They're attractive.
They're polished.
They do all of the things I just spoke
of that are important for great games.
Badland.
Unbelievable production
quality in this game.
Letterpress.
Talk about a social game.
Talk about great gameplay and
interaction and familiarity.
And it's feeling native without being,
you know, even though it has custom UI.
And then Sky Gamblers.
Great performance.
And an app that runs on iPad, iPhone,
and OS X.
So, you know,
these are truly great games,
and if you haven't already,
spend time with these games,
with all of them,
and pay attention to how well they embody
the characteristics that I just spoke of.
I mean, look through these games,
play them, and think about, you know,
are these attractive?
Are they responsive?
Are they doing the things
that I talked about earlier?
Do they represent the
characteristics of quality games?
And, you know, when you play with them,
when you interact with these games,
and many of you probably have,
you'll quickly begin to understand
why these games are so special,
why they won an Apple Design Award.
And maybe,
in the process of learning these
things and experiencing these
attributes inside these games,
you'll find ways and realize ways
that you can also improve your game.
So there you have it,
the traits of great games,
but we were talking about
next-generation games.
And to be clear,
having a great game is just the
first -- is just the starting
point for a next-generation game.
So in addition to being great,
next-generation games also have
five notable new characteristics.
The first is that they're optimized
for performance on the A7.
And the A7, as you know,
has been re-architected for 64-bit,
making our newest devices the
world's first 64-bit mobile devices.
I mean,
this is desktop-class architecture and
horsepower in the palm of your hand.
And no one else has
done anything like this.
And the A7 has got a brand-new CPU and a
GPU that provides tons of computational
power for the most demanding apps.
And we're just beginning to see
stuff come out now that's taking
full advantage of this horsepower.
Now, with 64-bit architecture,
with the 64-bit architecture
that the A7 has,
it means,
what this really means is that we've
got twice as many integer and floating
point registers as earlier processors.
So as the A6, for example,
on the iPhone 5.
And what these extra registers
mean is that the LLVM compiler,
for example,
that you use to develop your apps with,
it can use these extra registers
to optimize assembly language
and the Objective-C runtime.
And so just by virtue of having
extra registers on the processor,
we can optimize the
performance of iOS overall,
and we can optimize your code simply
running it through the LLVM compiler.
And because of all of that,
the A7 offers faster performance
for both 64-bit and 32-bit apps.
Now, if you're worried about the
switch to 64-bit and that
it'll be difficult for you,
don't worry.
You can easily maintain a
single code base and target
both 32-bit and 64-bit devices.
And we'll cover some techniques and
we'll cover details about how to do
this in a session later on today.
But what I want to make here is
that the 64-bit architecture of
the A7 is here to stay on iOS.
This is the future.
And so don't put off moving to 64-bit.
Now's the time to do it.
This is where we're moving.
The A7 improves CPU performance by
up to 2x when compared to the A6,
but it also gives you double
the GPU performance as well.
And you all know what the
benefits of a faster GPU are,
right?
There's more polygons, more sprites,
more particles, more complex shaders,
more special effects,
increased frame rates,
smoother animations,
more realistic lighting
and visual effects,
right?
These are all of the things
that a GPU provides to you.
And ultimately it means that the
techniques that used to be too expensive
for you to code or to employ in your
games are now totally within reach.
I mean,
many developers would hold back because
the hardware couldn't handle it.
And now there's no reason to hold back.
We believe that the new GPU,
the capabilities of a fast GPU like
in the A7 are going to open
up a whole new class of games.
And, you know, let's look at a leading
example of all of this.
This is Infinity Blade III.
You've probably seen this.
You've probably played it.
Maybe some of the authors
of this game are here today.
We demoed this game on stage
at the launch of the iPhone 5S.
And Infinity Blade II,
which was the predecessor,
was an incredible game in and of itself.
In fact,
I remember Infinity Blade I being
an amazing game and setting a
standard for a really great game
mechanic and great performance.
And each subsequent release
of this game has been amazing.
But the guys behind this game, you know,
they took Infinity Blade II and they
just kept dialing up the polygon count,
the texture size, the shader complexity,
and turned... and turned... and turned
on all kinds of special effects.
And they were blown away by the results.
So if you take a look
at this for a minute,
this is captured off of... in real
time off of an iPhone 5S at the launch.
And if you just watch this carefully,
you can see that there's
incredible depth of field.
I mean, look at the lighting effects,
the lens flare,
the reflections off of the armor, right?
The guys from Epic and
Chair Entertainment were amazed
at how capable the A7 was and what
they could do with it while still
maintaining their target frame rate.
I mean, this is fantastic stuff.
You see this on a Retina iPhone 5s.
It's amazing.
And that's just one example of
what's possible with the new
64-bit A7 chip that's powering
the iPhone 5s and the new iPads.
And frankly, if there's nothing else you
take away from today and no
further guidance that you,
you know, take from Apple,
it would be that taking advantage
of this horsepower is probably the
most important thing that you can do
to build a next-generation iOS game.
If nothing else,
if you just build a great game and
take advantage of this horsepower,
you'll have done an awesome job.
But there's more,
because the second trait of a
next-generation game is that
it's always ready to play,
to be played.
And this is possible due to a
new feature in multitasking on
iOS 7 that lets you do background
downloads of your game content.
In iOS 7, we added some new multitasking
modes that all apps can use.
And we did this in a way
that preserves battery life.
So let me be clear.
Multitasking gives your app numerous
opportunities to stay up to date.
iOS 7 does intelligent scheduling.
So for example,
it notices when people play a game,
when the game is typically played.
And it gives background cycles ahead
of time so that your game can be ready
to be played again at the same time.
iOS 7 also takes advantage of the times
when a device is powered up to let
your game do opportunistic updates.
Maybe you want to go get some things for
your game for the next time it's played.
And because the device powers up,
we give you some time
to go get that content.
And thirdly,
iOS 7 responds to push notifications
as a trigger to give your game
time to fetch the information it
needs so that when people tap on
the notification about your game,
they're taken directly to the game
and it's ready for them to play.
And this stuff wasn't
possible previously.
Now, this is doable using three new
API tied to multitasking in iOS 7.
The first is background fetch,
where we will launch your game
periodically so that you can pull down
new data and update your UI accordingly.
The second is remote notifications,
where we'll run your game in response
to a silent push notification so that
you can update your content on demand.
And instead of having to
poll your servers for updates
when your game launches,
for example,
which slows down that initial
launch time of your game,
obviously.
And it delays that instant
gratification for players.
They launch the game.
They want to play.
They have to wait because you
have to go poll your server.
That doesn't have to happen anymore.
And the third part of this
is the background transfers.
iOS can download content
updates in the background even
if your game isn't running.
Now, since you have new opportunities
for your game to be running on
iOS 7 that didn't exist before,
it's even more important than ever
that you are being power smart as well
when you do these background updates.
So let me just touch on this briefly.
Using the network, of course, obviously,
uses power because we have to power up
the antennas regardless of whether you're
using cellular or Bluetooth or Wi-Fi.
So when you connect to
an external resource,
it's going to take power because
we have to bring up the antennas
and the radios on the device.
So do access these external resources
only when needed and avoid polling
for information from your game
servers or wherever you're reaching
out to for more information.
Another thing here about
being power smart is that it's
important to try to transmit the
smallest amount of data possible.
[ Transcript missing ]
So that's a brief touch on multitasking,
but on iOS 7, your game as a result can
be always ready to play,
which is a great thing.
I mean, nowadays, who wants to wait,
right?
Next up is that
next-generation games are,
iOS games are secure.
And these days,
a lot of games are backed by a server.
So it's more important
than ever to be secure.
Most of the developers
that we talk with nowadays,
certainly over the past year,
have some server infrastructure
that's supporting gameplay.
[ Transcript missing ]
And this is an important
thing for you to understand,
particularly if you have
a server-backed game,
because it has an effect on your
game if you use the new multitasking
API to do stuff in the background
or when your game isn't running.
So what happens is that data protection
will encrypt data on disk using
keys based on the user's passcode.
And when an iOS device locks,
we throw away these keys and may no
longer be able to decrypt the data.
So with the new
multitasking APIs in iOS 7,
your game may be allowed to
run not only in the background,
but also when the device is locked.
These are new capabilities.
But the problem is that potentially,
if you need to update your
game in the background,
you're going to need to access
credentials in order to obtain player
information from your game server.
But if the device is locked,
you might not be able to
get these credentials.
So while data protection is important
for securing data on the device,
it's equally important that you use
the latest best practices to securely
transmit data over the network as well.
And to do this,
it's important to use secure protocols
and to verify certificates and,
whenever possible,
to hash any sensitive data.
And always respect your player's privacy.
And we've got a session
that goes in detail.
Around data protection and access,
credential access,
and all of the things that
I just spoke of later on today.
And you don't want to miss it.
And just to drive home the point here,
making your app secure,
making your game secure is not something
that should be an afterthought.
It's important to plan for
these things in advance and to
ensure a secure user experience.
We have a session, as I said,
later today that will talk
about this in more detail.
Now, another attribute of
next-generation games is that
they are designed for touch.
And what this means is that when
you're creating an iOS game,
it's critical that the controls and
interactions are designed with direct
manipulation and touch in mind.
Now, if your game was sort of, you know,
the genesis of your game was, you know,
recently around iOS, then,
and you thought about
multi-touch already,
that's sort of the only place
that your game has existed,
then this is sort of a non-issue.
Of course, it's going to be, you know,
touch-enabled.
But if your game is coming to
iOS from a console platform,
let's say, then the controller there
was designed for you already,
but it had many built-in assumptions
about gameplay and interaction that
may need to be reconsidered or changed.
So it sort of depends on where you're
coming from with your game as to whether
or not you are designed for touch or not.
The best games on iOS create
controls that are designed for touch,
as I just said.
And this means taps, swipes, gestures.
They work well.
They respond immediately.
They track beneath the user's finger.
They give feedback, this kind of thing.
And by touch, I mean, you know,
that touch defines the
realm of possible controls,
and the controls define the gameplay.
So it's the gestures and taps that
define the mechanic of the game.
and the key is to create controls
designed around direct interaction,
right?
Direct manipulation reinforced
by instantaneous feedback.
And think about that for a moment.
Direct interaction reinforced
by immediate feedback.
Does your game do that?
So let's go back a few years and
look at a classic example of this.
And I said to you that there are about
10 games that I play over and over.
This is one of them.
This is one of that 10.
I love flight control.
And this is flight control for FireBint,
if you didn't know.
They're now part of EA.
And this game instantly defined a
completely new genre of gaming when
it arrived on the App Store in 2008,
by the way.
This was a really innovative game.
Talk about technological advances.
These guys had dabbled with the
multi-touch capabilities of the
SDK and had come up with the
game mechanic for flight control.
And this is a game that was
designed for touch from the get-go.
So what I mean by that is that you see an
airplane flying in-- you've undoubtedly
played this game-- and you take your
finger and drag a path to the runway that
corresponds to the color of the airplane,
right?
And that's it.
It's super easy.
Right?
It's really great.
There's no other rules.
That's how you play the game.
And that's why it's so compelling.
Because people just pick
it up and they're like,
oh, is that all I need to do?
That's incredible.
And when this first hit the store,
this blew people's minds.
But it's such a super easy interaction.
But why is this so great?
Well, it's because your eyes tell
you where the airplane is.
You get audio and visual feedback
when you touch the plane.
You feel friction as you draw
the flight path on the glass.
And you see immediately
the path that you drew.
And you see the effects of that action.
Everything is in sync.
And so, in other words, what you feel,
what you see, and what you hear all
reinforce each other.
This is what being
designed for touch means.
And there are not enough games yet on
the App Store that do this correctly.
And we want to work with you today to
make sure that your games are doing this.
So what works best for when
you're designing for touch?
Well,
what works best is game mechanics that
are built around direct manipulation.
Things like drawing,
dragging path gestures like we just saw,
swipes, touches, and taps.
And that's all versus game mechanics
built around indirect manipulation,
like virtual D-pads
and virtual joysticks.
Those are far less efficient,
and they're not designed for touch.
But there are games that are
based on indirect interaction.
And those types of games are great
candidates for augmenting your touch
input with support for a game controller.
And game controllers are super great
for providing the physical feedback
that you need for indirect interactions,
so tight sequence moves and so on.
And we'll go into great detail this
afternoon in one of the sessions
around the MFI game controllers.
And you can learn more about them.
We may even have some samples in the lab.
I can't remember.
And so anyway,
that's a quick overview of what
it means to be designed for touch,
which is a vital trait of
a next-generation game.
And finally,
let's talk about being state of the art.
Because next-generation iOS games
consistently need to target the
latest and greatest to really
differentiate themselves on iOS.
If you want to stand out from the crowd,
then take advantage of the latest and
greatest OS and hardware technologies.
So state of the art games take
advantage of the capabilities
of the latest iOS devices.
Every time we come out with a new device,
we have new capabilities.
I mean, think about it.
Go back to the iPhone 4.
When it came out,
we introduced Retina Display.
Before that,
we had devices that came out,
we introduced the Gyroscope.
And prior to that, the very first iPhone
had the accelerometer.
For example.
And every time there's a new device,
we're introducing new hardware
capabilities that you can take
advantage of in your games.
And right now,
new hardware capabilities to
take advantage of are 64-bit,
the A7 GPU, Open GLES 3.0,
and those kinds of things.
state-of-the-art apps also
support the latest iOS releases.
And we recommend supporting the
current release of iOS and 1 minus,
so current OS and current OS minus 1.
And this makes a lot of sense when
you recall the speed with which
people have latched on to iOS 7.
As I mentioned earlier,
as of a few weeks ago,
we saw that 74% of all iOS devices
today of the 700 million that
we announced are running iOS 7.
And that's an OS that came
out just a few months ago.
So think about where you are
putting your development resources.
How much effort is going
into the iOS 7 slice here,
the slice that's growing,
versus how much effort are you
putting into the smaller slice?
I mean, and really,
the challenge is that you need
to make sure that your resource
allocation isn't out of balance.
Target iOS 7.
That's where the energy is.
Christmas is coming.
People are going to buy tons of devices,
and they're all going
to be running on iOS 7.
So target current iOS
version and one minus that,
and when the new version
of iOS comes out,
and undoubtedly there'll be another one,
you know, move to that right away.
State-of-the-art apps also integrate
with built-in game technologies,
and the big ones on iOS 7 are
the improvements to Game Center,
OpenGL ES3, talked about much of this,
the SpriteKit framework, Game Controller,
and AirPlay.
AirPlay,
which has been around for a while,
but still, not enough games are
taking advantage of it.
There's a huge opportunity here for you.
And there are so many other technologies
in the SDK that have been around
for a while or that have just been
introduced that are enhancements
to existing frameworks that you can
use to do something really cool on iOS.
So familiarize yourself with the built-in
technologies on iOS and integrate them
instead of rolling your own stuff,
instead of creating your own custom
libraries and trying to do things
that the SDK already does very,
very well and does in an optimal way
for the... for the CPU and the GPU.
And state-of-the-art games also are built
using the current tools and techniques.
Now, our current tool set
includes these three things,
right?
The current shipping version of Xcode,
which is 5.0.1,
it includes the iOS 7 SDK,
and this version of Xcode
is for OS X Mavericks.
So make sure that your development
machine is running Mac OS X Mavericks.
Now, sometimes we hear,
from people who say that they're using
an older SDK and an older version of
Xcode because they think that moving
to the newest stuff is going to mean
that they can't support anything older.
[ Transcript missing ]
So stay current with our tools,
stay current with all of the
capabilities that they provide,
and take advantage of this to reach
back to earlier versions of the OS.
And we'll cover some more
of this later today as well.
So use the current tools and
techniques and continually
push ahead to stay modern.
I mean, with every OS and SDK release,
we keep innovating and
adding new capabilities,
like I mentioned earlier.
And players quickly move forward.
Your customers are wanting
the latest hardware.
They're buying it,
and they're upgrading to iOS.
They want the newest
capabilities of Game Center.
capabilities of this hardware.
And they are going to quickly come to
expect that your game is ready to go.
They're ready for the new hardware
and for the new capabilities.
So it's important that you adopt
these things quickly and avoid the
temptation of sticking with an older SDK.
So avoid standing still, keep investing,
keep learning, and keep current.
And that's state of the art.
So these are the five characteristics
of next-generation iOS games.
They are 64-bit optimized
and optimized for the A7.
They're always up to date.
They're secure.
They're designed for touch.
And they are state of the art.
And of course, it goes without saying
that they have to be great.
and these along with key
iOS 7 technologies like
we just mentioned earlier,
OpenGL ES3, etc.
are what we will be
focusing on today in depth.
So iOS 7 and our latest devices make it
possible for you to build next-generation
iOS games that were impossible to
imagine just a couple of years ago.
So we hope you have a great day.
We're really looking forward
to talking to all of you.
And we're going to take a real
short break right now and start
as soon as we can at 10 a.m.
on the advances in OpenGL ES 3.0.
Thank you so much for
spending time with us today.